---
title: "Neurophysiological mechanisms of error monitoring in human and non-human primates" 
date: 2023-01-27
url: /2023_NRN/
aliases: 
tags: ["medial frontal cortex","error","cross-species"]
author: "Zhongzheng Fu, Amirsaman Sajad, Steven P. Errington, Jeffrey D. Schall, & Ueli Rutishauser"
description: ""
summary: "This review article explores the relationship between performance monitoring, frontal cortex function, and psychiatric disorders by discussing findings from studies on macaques and humans, highlighting the identification of specific neurons associated with error monitoring and proposing a theoretical framework that offers new insights into error signal computation in both species."
cover:
    image: "/1.png"
    alt: "Rationing and frictional unemployment in the United States, 1964–2009"
    relative: false
editPost:
    URL: "https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-022-00670-w"
    Text: "Nature Reviews Neuroscience"

---


##### Download

- [Paper](XXX)
- [Online appendix](XXX)

---

##### Abstract

Performance monitoring is an important executive function that allows us to gain insight into our own behaviour. This remarkable ability relies on the frontal cortex, and its impairment is an aspect of many psychiatric diseases. In recent years, recordings from the macaque and human medial frontal cortex have offered a detailed understanding of the neurophysiological substrate that underlies performance monitoring. Here we review the discovery of single-neuron correlates of error monitoring, a key aspect of performance monitoring, in both species. These neurons are the generators of the error-related negativity, which is a non-invasive biomarker that indexes error detection. We evaluate a set of tasks that allows the synergistic elucidation of the mechanisms of cognitive control across the two species, consider differences in brain anatomy and testing conditions across species, and describe the clinical relevance of these findings for understanding psychopathology. Last, we integrate the body of experimental facts into a theoretical framework that offers a new perspective on how error signals are computed in both species and makes novel, testable predictions.

---
##### Citation

Fu, Z., Sajad, A., Errington, S. P., Schall, J. D., & Rutishauser, U. (2023). Neurophysiological mechanisms of error monitoring in human and non-human primates. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 24(3), 153-172.
